# DataIncubator
This is my git repository for the Data Incubator fellowship challenge.

The Korean War satrted in June, 1950, when the forces of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea corssed the 38th parallel and attacked the Republic of Korea. The Korean peninsula had been a Japanese colony since 1905. The Japanese subjugated the Korean people and exploited the material wealth and population. At the conclusion of the Second World War, the United States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics agreed to partition the peninsula at the 38th parallel. The Soviet Union controlled the northern half and the United States oversaw the southern. There was no peaceful respite from the war, as Communist guerillas remained actived in South Korea. With the permission of the Soviet Union and the abeyance of the People's Republic of China, the North Korean forces smashed the weak South Korean and United States forces. The United States used the United Nations to condemn the invasion and formed a coalition of military forces to repel the invaders. After a perilous summer, the United Nations forces pushed north, and by November, 1950, reached the Yalu River, the border with China. This triggered an armed response by the Chinese, and the massed forces sent the United Nation forces reeling south in a bitter winter retreat. The fighting continued until 1953, when a truce was negotiated.

It has been 65 years since the truce was enacted, and tensions have flared in the intervening years. The war was considered a sideshow, a diversion from an impending Communist invasion of western Europe. Indeed, the United States, the predominant military power in the United Nations coalition, scraped together reinforcements and supplies. The war faded from view and aside from television show M*A*S*H, the war attracts scant attention.

My data project aims to put the cost of the war into context. Inspired by the Fallen.io project, I would like to create a profile of the United States war deaths. The United Staes suffered 36,000 deaths during the active period of the war, and there re few tributes to the fallen. While the casualty count is miniscule compared to the Second World War, the casualty rate is comparable to the Vietnam War.

The data sets were collected from the Nationl Archives. There is a main file compiled from the official Department of Defense paperwork. There are also state level files. The main task will be to create data containers for the files, then comb both for accuracy. After ensuring accuracy of the data, the janitorial work, the next phase would be to review the data and create a profile. The data sets include date of death, cause of death, and personal information about the service men.


